I've used the term kinematics a number of
times in this lecture and I haven't really
been very clear about what it means. Kinematics
is a branch of mathematics that studies the
motion of a body or a system of bodies. Kinematics
is concerned with the positions of things
or the angles between things and is concerned
with velocities. These can be translational
velocities or they could be angular velocities.
Kinematics is not concerned with forces and
moments. That's the business of dynamics.
So in kinematics people study mechanisms such
as the ones shown here and try to understand
how the motion of one body is related to the
motion of another body.
I have shown here examples of a number of
quite complex mechanisms. In kinematics, is
the study of the motion of the various components
of these mechanisms. In robotics, we consider
two kinematic problems.
First one, in what we discuss in this particular
lecture is what's called the forward kinematic
problem. And that is given the robot joint
angles, what's the pose of the robot's tool tip?
The second problem is called the inverse kinematics.
And we're going to discuss that in the next
lecture. Given that I know the pose that I
want the robot in-defector to have, the problem
is to determine what are the joint angles
required in order to achieve that. Let me
leave you with this quote I really like. It's
about kinematics.